“Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) for bioinformatics”


We hereby declare that the project work embodying the results reported in this 
thesis entitled “A mobile application on performing BLAST analysis and local 
alignment”


Overview :



Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) for bioinformatics

-BLAST, stands for Basic Local Alignment Search Tool, is an algorithm which compares the primary biological sequences information such as nucleotides of DNA sequences and different types of protein sequences. The BLAST algorithm and program were designed by Stephen Altschul, Warren Gish, Webb Miller, Eugene Myers, and David J.
-A BLAST search enables a researcher to compare a query sequence with a library or database of sequences. This algorithm was developed to perform sequences similarity search of DNA or protein sequences that is faster than FASTA but equally sensitive .BLAST use heuristic approach to find out the similarities which helps the program to run fast. It also provides an approximate output when the exact output doesn’t exist. For rapid reformatting of search results and enhancement of server, new queuing system has been implemented for BLAST which is called “QBLAST”. The BLAST algorithm has not changed; QBLAST simply offers a modular approach that separates the search step from the output formatting step.



What is the main problem?
The problem:


1- we have a certain gene we don’t know his function 
2- we need to know a special domain from a sequence that is given...

Context and Goals :
We compares the primary biological sequences information such as nucleotide of DNA
sequences and different types of protein sequences.
then compare it with a query sequence with a library or database of sequences.




What kind of tools did we use to overcome this problem?

TOOLS :
PHP :  is a server-side scripting language designed for the developers for web development.
PHP codes are basically embedded into HTML code. It can also be used by combining with various web template systems as well as different web frameworks. PHP codes are processed by a PHP interpreter that is a module in the web server

HTML5 : Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) can read HTML files and transfer them to visual or audible online web pages. By combining both PHP and HTML, 

a website is designed successfully with color being added by CSS. HTML is based on many attributes

Its main focus is to support the latest multimedia and also to keep it simple for the user on the World Wide Web. Some of the new features that HTML5 has included are , and elements in the attributes



Algorithm :
BLAST algorithm
 
BLAST, stands for Basic Local Alignment Search Tool, is an algorithm which
compares the primary biological sequences information such as nucleotide of DNA
sequences and different types of protein sequences.
Smith-Waterman algorithm
Smith-Waterman algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm. It was developed
in 1981 by Temple F. Smith and Machael Waterman. This algorithm performs Local 8
alignment and used in the bioinformatics to align DNA or protein sequences to find out the
similar regions of the given two sequences. Instead of aligning the entire length of two
protein sequences, this algorithm finds the region of highest similarity between two protein
sequences.

Team members :

Esraa Ramadan Ahmed Mosaad 

Mariam ahmed abdelaleem

Abdelrahman Magdy Elsafty

Manar El sadaty Mohamed 

Rana Al-mansour Al-tantawy 
